---
layout: post
title: Resume
---


Andy Mayer
BEng FRSA
Business and Technology Leader, Innovator and Strategist
Yoomee 
2017 - present
Chatbot developer and conversation designer
Researching, designing and building new digital products that engage with humans using natural conversation (called "chatbots"). Helping non-profits use AI and chatbots for social change. Building products using IBM Watson and Rasa,  the industry-leading AI technology.

2006 - present
Founder and Strategy Director
Founded and led Yoomee to become a highly respected digital agency for its specialisms in co-creation, service design and Agile delivery of social good projects. 

Developed strategy behind the design and delivery of over 70 digital innovation projects for non-profit clients including Save the Children, Mind, Time to Change, Eden Project and Girlguiding. Examples include:

Mind: Elefriends online peer support community; a lifeline for over 80,000 people struggling to cope with life

vInspired: online volunteering service used to deliver over 1 million volunteering opportunities to young people

Kirklees Council: Comoodle, a new model of service delivery emphasising two-way transactions

Breast Cancer Now: fundraising tool helping friends and family honour loved ones lost to cancer

Save the Children: strategy exploring a radical move to put children and young people at the charity's heart

Recruited, grew and led a multi-disciplinary team of 20 employees. Implemented business processes for service designers, software developers and researchers. 

One of eight agencies in the Northern Tech 100 league table of fastest growing digital companies in 2017. Voted by @GovStart as one of the top 100 companies disrupting the public sector.

Juize A/S & Freelance
2000 - 2006
Software developer, project manager and technical team leader
Technical lead in a number of dot com startups in the USA and Europe. Project manager responsible for building and managing a team of multi-lingual developers across three continents (USA, Denmark and Egypt). My freelance business won UKBI Incubated Business of the Year.

Columbus IT Denmark
1998 - 2000
Senior consultant for Microsoft Solutions Provider
Responsible for developing and rolling out proprietary international project implementation method (similar to PRINCE2) to ensure consistent quality and approach across 20 subsidiary companies throughout Europe.

British Steel plc
1992 - 1998
Business Analyst
After being sponsored through my university course started as a graduate management trainee.

Education & awards
2015 - present: Fellow (FRSA)
Invited to become a Fellow of the RSA (Royal Society for the encouragement of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce) in light of my exceptional commitment to producing technology with social purpose through my role at Yoomee. 

1998: Aston Business School
Certificate in Management

1988 - 1992: The University of Salford
B Eng Electronics and Software Engineering (2:1)

1986 - 1988: John Leggott Sixth Form College
Four A levels, including double maths and physics

Volunteering
2014 - present: Working with offenders
Piloted a business apprenticeship for a young offender. Volunteer mentor on Code4000 project teaching offenders to code. Volunteer prison chaplain for Serco at HMP Doncaster.

2015 - present: Sheffield Digital, founder and board member
Part of the team which created Sheffield Digital – the city's first trade association to bring together the digital industries. There are now 900 participating community members.

2015 - 2017: Sheffugee hack days, Founder and organiser
Organised and recruited volunteers for a series of hackdays to develop a digital solution to help local refugee organisations. Used a co-design approach with service users to develop an online service now used by 20 organisations across the city. 3,000 people directly benefitting, including 900 destitute asylum seekers who have been refused asylum.

2016: Sheffield Tech For Good
Started a series of meetups to bring together digital experts with the local voluntary organisations. Addressed themes such as mental health, refugees and the environment

2014 - 2015:  Mentor with Young Rewired State
The Festival of Code is the world's largest hackathon for young people and involves over 1,000 coders hosted at 70 centres across the UK. I hosted and ran the Sheffield centre for two years and mentored 15 young people over this period.

Interests
Conversational UX and artificial intelligence for social good
Following a series of online courses from MIT and Stanford on Machine Learning. Researching and coding an AI-powered chatbot called Pebble for mental health support in Sheffield.

Brutalist architecture/design of studio spaces
In 2016 I undertook a project to convert 1,300 square metres of space in a 1950's concrete Brutalist building into a custom design space for collaborative working.

 

View on LinkedIn
